# Visual Analytics Assignment 3
## Assignment description
This repository contains my solutions to assignment 3 for the Visual Analytics course at Aarhus university. The goal of this assignment is to write a program that can classify image data sourced from the [cifar10 tensorflow dataset](https://www.tensorflow.org/datasets/catalog/cifar10) using a convolutional neural network.     
The program should also output a classification report and two plots that track training and validation, loss, and accuracy across epochs.     

## Methods 
To classify the colour images of the Cifar_10 dataset, I used VGG16 (loaded using the tensorflow module), a pretrained convolutional neural, to extract features from the images. After this, I added a classification layer to the pretrained CNN while slowing down stochastic gradient decent (using an exponential decay rate of 0.9) to avoid overfitting.     
The CNN ran for 20 epochs.     

## Repository structure 
in: Folder for input data (cifar10 data is loaded using the tensorflow module, and as such the script cannot load data from this folder)    
output: Folder for the output generated by the scrips – at present it contains 2 files:     
- history_img.png: 
    -	Generated by running the cnn_classifier.py  – an image containing two graphs – one that tracks the training and validation loss across epochs, and one that does the same for the training and validation accuracy 
-	classification_report.txt: 
    -	Generated by running the cnn_classifier.py – a .txt file containing the classification report of the model

src: Folder for python scripts 
-	\_\_init__.py
-	cnn_classifier.py

github_link.txt: link to github repository      
requirements.txt: txt file containing the modules required to run the code    

## Usage 
Modules listed in requirements.txt should be installed before the script is run.    
__cnn_classifier.py__    
To train and evaluate a CNN classification model, run cnn_classifeir.py from the Visual_analytics_A3 repository folder. 
Example of code running the script from the terminal:    
```
python src/cnn_classifer.py
```

## Discussion of results
Generally, the model had between 40 and 60% precision and recall, though it had difficulty identifying cats (precision = 39%, recall = 35%).    
Looking at history_img.png, it seems like neither the loss and accuracy for the validation and training data diverge much, which is a sing that the model is not overfitting the data.
